 #### 2.6.9. Using IDENTITY columns

    <div class="paragraph">

    For implementing identifier value generation based on IDENTITY columns,
    Hibernate makes use of its `org.hibernate.id.IdentityGenerator` id generator which expects the identifier to generated by INSERT into the table.
    IdentityGenerator understands 3 different ways that the INSERT-generated value might be retrieved:

    </div>
    <div class="ulist">

*   If Hibernate believes the JDBC environment supports `java.sql.Statement#getGeneratedKeys`, then that approach will be used for extracting the IDENTITY generated keys.
*   Otherwise, if `Dialect#supportsInsertSelectIdentity` reports true, Hibernate will use the Dialect specific INSERT+SELECT statement syntax.
*   Otherwise, Hibernate will expect that the database supports some form of asking for the most recently inserted IDENTITY value via a separate SQL command as indicated by `Dialect#getIdentitySelectString`
    </div>
    <div class="admonitionblock important">
    <table>
    <tr>
    <td class="icon">

    </td>
    <td class="content">
    <div class="paragraph">

    It is important to realize that this imposes a runtime behavior where the entity row **must** be physically inserted prior to the identifier value being known.
    This can mess up extended persistence contexts (conversations).
    Because of the runtime imposition/inconsistency Hibernate suggest other forms of identifier value generation be used.

    </div>
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    </div>
    <div class="admonitionblock note">
    <table>
    <tr>
    <td class="icon">

    </td>
    <td class="content">
    <div class="paragraph">

    There is yet another important runtime impact of choosing IDENTITY generation: Hibernate will not be able to JDBC batching for inserts of the entities that use IDENTITY generation.
    The importance of this depends on the application specific use cases.
    If the application is not usually creating many new instances of a given type of entity that uses IDENTITY generation, then this is not an important impact since batching would not have been helpful anyway.

    </div>
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    </div>
    </div>
    <div class="sect3">